Added article refactoring (#316)
DXHeroes/knowledge-base-content: practices/refactoring.md

---
slug: refactoring
stages:
  - development

> short_description: In computer programming and software design, code refactoring is the process of restructuring existing computer code—changing the factoring—without changing its external behavior.

Reviewer: Please, rewrite this definition with your own words. Using the direct quote (even though is a good one) hurts this article.

_In computer programming and software design, code refactoring is the process of restructuring existing computer code—changing the factoring—without changing its external behavior_ from https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Code_refactoring

tags:
  - refactoring
  - code improvement
  - coding practice
  - code review
  - behaviour-neutral
keywords:
  - code
  - quality
  - improvement
---

# Refactoring

**TL;DR**

In computer programming and software design, code refactoring is the process of restructuring existing computer code—changing the factoring—without changing its external behavior.

## What is Refactoring

In programming and software terms, refactoring means cleaning of code. It is a controlled technique used for improving the design of existing code. By refactoring the code, one can improve the code readability and reduce its complexity.

![Refactoring](/files/refactoring.png)

> A good program is as good as its code.

If the code of a program is easily readable and understandable then the program made by it is better as compared to a code which is messy.

The essence of refactoring is applying small coding changes that preserves the functionality. The small changes when combined together bring about a significant change.

## Why You Might Want to Refactor?

> - Refactoring the code makes it easier to understand for other people.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Refactoring your code makes it easier to understand for other people.
```

- It avoids the duplication and hence one follows DRY principle

> - It reduces the code which is less maintenance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- It reduces code maintenance
```

> - It passes all the tests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- It makes testing easier
```
I think that any piece of code should pass all the tests (not only refactored).

> - Debugging and maintenance is easier.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Debugging is easier.
```

## Problems the Refactoring Helps to Solve

> - Improves the objective attributes of code(length, duplication, coupling ,etc.)

Reviewer: unfortunately, this sentence is too similar to _refactoring improves objective attributes of code (length, duplication, coupling, and cohesion_

- Maintenance is much easier.
- Code Debugging is improved.
- Improves Code smell.
- Improved readability.
- Reduced complexity.
- Helps code understanding.
- Allows reusable design elements.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Helps to minimize [Poor Code Quality](/problems/poor-code-quality)
```
Some of the other problems could be included in this. What do you think about it?

## How to Implement Refactoring

> 

Reviewer: I would suggest mentioning something about a correct version control and refactoring. Something like when committing, use the label “Refactoring”. What do you think about this suggestion? Do you agree?

> 1. Find the code which is used in many places.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Find the code which you use in many places.
```

2. Create its own function.

> 3. Call that function in the place.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Call that function in the place instead.
```

> 4. Repeat till steps 1-3 cannot be done.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Repeat till you can not find frequently used code
```

> **Some things to be taken care of **

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Keep in mind during refactoring**
```

- If code is not cleaner refactoring is not done.
- Don't include new features.
- Try making small changes step by step. 
- All tests should pass

## Common pitfalls of Refactoring

> - Challenging as small changes are not likely to be made because of laziness i.e. "Too small to worth doing".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Lack of developer motivation to do these small changes
```

> - Expensive and risky in view of management.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Expensive and risky in the view of management.
```
Or you could say Management can see refactoring as expensive and not important. Just suggestion

- Bug introduction is quite common.

> - Does not mean rewriting the code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Developer start adding new features, rewriting the code, or fixing bugs during refactoring.
```
I think these pitfalls can be grouped together.

- Does not mean fixing the bugs

## Resources for Refactoring

> 

Reviewer: I think you could also include this paper on the correlation between refactoring as practice and quality of code (10.1051/matecconf/20165702012) (if you don't have access to the academic sources, it is possible to use  https://scihub.wikicn.top to get the content. I am not encouraging you to use it).

- [Refactoring Guru](https://refactoring.guru/refactoring)
- [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Code_refactoring)
- [Science Direct](https://www.sciencedirect.com/topics/computer-science/refactoring)

> - [Agile Alliance](https://www.agilealliance.org/glossary/refactoring/#q=~(infinite~false~filters~(postType~(~'page~'post~'aa_book~'aa_event_session~'aa_experience_report~'aa_glossary~'aa_research_paper~'aa_video)~tags~(~'refactoring))~searchTerm~'~sort~false~sortDirection~'asc~page~1))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Agile Alliance](https://www.agilealliance.org/glossary/refactoring)
```

---
slug: refactoring
stages:

>   - development
>   - production

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - development
```

`production` is not a valid stage - see Contribution guide for more info

> short_description:In computer programming and software design, code refactoring is the process of restructuring existing computer code—changing the factoring—without changing its external behavior.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
short_description: In computer programming and software design, code refactoring is the process of restructuring existing computer code—changing the factoring—without changing its external behavior.
```
